title: South Campus Parking
url: https://www.reddit.com/r/OSU/comments/1l8h0ph/south_campus_parking/
source_type: reddit
---
South Campus Parking
Can anyone explain how parking around south campus would work? My family is visiting for the next couple days, and I wasn’t sure what parking would be available to them. I live off campus by JOS, and I was wondering if there’s street parking or a safe/cheap garage?

There can be street parking for free, but be careful to read the signs. Just because something seems to be available doesn't necessarily mean it's allowed. King between Cannon and High comes to mind. There's a LOT of signage in those blocks.


I think what happened there (and south) is the city put the permit zones south of the university in order to protect resident parking in those areas.


The best garage would probably be the Gateway garage, but that's gonna be *looks it up* a max of $18.50/day. It does allow overnight parking on certain floors. The hospital garages would also work. (IDM


Assuming you don't have a permit for the city streets, there's the ParkMobile app for visitors. If you do have a permit, it's $3/night for additional permits, at least in my part of the city.


Remember that street parking on Sundays is free. (Obviously continue to obey signs about no parking and such.)


I BELIEVE...there's some free parking on Neil in the area of Hangover Easy. There USED to be a few spots immediately south of that H2O Church on Neil, but those might be limited parking without the permit.


Keep in mind that the car has to be moved every 72 hours or else it can be towed/ticketed as abandoned. It's not enforced a lot, but it's something to keep in mind.

King has big stretches of free street parking. Half mile from Jesse Owens, tops

Here are some 24 hour free, no permit required spots to park in South campus:

- Neil Ave in front of King Ave Methodist Church (west side only)
- W 7th in front of H2O church (north side only)
- King Ave between Hunter and Highland (north side only)
- E 8th, E 9th, E 11th

Most of everything else is permit only, paid, or has time restrictions so make sure to read the parking signs.
