title: Public Parking Help
url: https://www.reddit.com/r/OSU/comments/1fvb7j2/public_parking_help/
source_type: reddit
---
Public Parking Help
Hello, I am a sophomore here at OSU, and I’m looking at bringing a vehicle down here next week to help make travel easier for me and my family. Im curious, is there any parking, such as like roadside parking that is free that I could possibly keep a car at overnight and move every day or two? I’m willing to walk some miles to anything.

Parking in the neighborhood is for residents and hard enough as is. If you live on campus, get a campus pass.

This is gonna be the best option. It sucks, but if the car is nearby, it's probably going to be safer than one parked on a random street several miles away.

There is non permit parking available in the university district in certain places

https://www.columbus.gov/Services/Parking-Street-Services/Mobility-Parking-Services/Parking-Plans-Permit-Parking/University-District-Parking-Plan

You can get a parking pass through the city of Columbus for several streets directly off of campus, for something like $25 per year. I did this a couple of years ago when I lived on Neil, directly off of south campus. Sooo much cheaper than CampusParc or paying for apartment parking

The park closes at 11pm. Do not park there overnight.

If you want free, then one option is to find a spot in Grandview near a bus route. Look at the area of King Ave and Northwest Blvd. Remember that your Buck ID gives you unlimited COTA rides.


Is the area between Lennox and Kenny Rd still an option or did that go permit? I want to say it went permit.



There's limited free parking north of campus if you read the signs. A lot of this area has street sweeping and they absolutely will tow, so read the signs.  


There's also parking in the Tuttle Park parking lot north of the Varsity Club, but I'm not sure if that's limited hours or not.

You’re gonna have to pay somehow, sorry. For roadside parking, they ticket if you don’t have a permit and you stay overnight. Towing is notorious here so good luck especially on game days.

Summit and 4th are free to park, you just need to move your car for street cleaning whenever that is. I'd avoid the area at night though and you do run the risk of your car being broken into or your catalytic converter being stolen.

Not what you're asking for, but CampusParc has visitor passes available: https://osu.campusparc.com/media/djontj0y/productpricingpy25update.pdf. I'm always too nervous about getting towed or ticketed, so paying $around $30 to me feels like the safer option.

Significant parts of the University area either require a permit or offer paid parking. [This City map](https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/648adcf8a293489b9ec3f5017e7c9d2b) has tabs for "Parking" and "Permit Eligibility". As long as you park outside of those areas, street parking is free, but pay attention to signs describing allowed times, street sweeping dates, and football game dates.

My house is in South Campus. I have plenty of parking space to park your or your family’s car safely. If you’re interested, let me know. Also, I have an extra rooms that can be rented for those days your family is in town.
