title: Worth it to Appeal Parking Citation?
url: https://www.reddit.com/r/OSU/comments/1lr4cd3/worth_it_to_appeal_parking_citation/
source_type: reddit
---
Worth it to Appeal Parking Citation?
Hey guys,

  
I parked outside my research labs parking lot, which I am not supposed to, but I was only going to be there for an hour. Unfortunately campusparc caught me and hit me with a $56 fine. Is it worth appealing, and what would I even say?

If it’s a legit ticket, they probably won’t dismiss it altogether. But if it’s your first time, they might reduce it down quite a bit. In that case, submit an appeal and just be polite and honest about what happened. Worst case is they say no, best case you pay a fraction of the fine.

This is not true in my experience, granted it’s been a few years. If it’s your first offense and it wasn’t something egregious like parking in a disability spot, they’ll reduce the fine by a substantial amount.

I’ve appealed both my citations online and it worked. However, in those cases, I got the citations because I reverse parked and my license plate wasn’t showing. I wasn’t even sure what the problem was until I called them and they clarified it for me. I think it’s worth a shot to appeal!

I thought they only gave out $85 tickets. Count your blessings!

One time I appealed a ticket online, almost as a joke because I did accidentally park in the wrong spot, I said something along the lines of “this is so stupid please just take the ticket away I didn’t mean to” and they did get rid of it, somehow. So it’s worth a shot!

Everyone I know who appealed their first… including me beat the ticket by admitting ignorance to the fact you couldn’t park there

Ok, thanks for the insight!

do you remember how u worded it

No. You parked someplace you were not supposed to park. You have no defense. Appealing is for when they messed up and you were not supposed to be ticketed. That’s not you, you should have been ticketed and you were. You probably won’t do that again… that’s the point of a ticket.
