title: Parking tips for someone who doesn’t go here?
url: https://www.reddit.com/r/OSU/comments/1ke38zh/parking_tips_for_someone_who_doesnt_go_here/
source_type: reddit
---
Parking tips for someone who doesn’t go here?
I’m starting a job here this summer and I‘ve heard parking at Ohio State is the WORST. I was hoping they’d send some parking instructions or we’d get a pass or something but it looks like that’s not happening. Any advice to ensure I can find parking and not get towed/a ticket? I’ll be working in whatever building has the chemistry department.

Have you received any kind of onboarding or orientation information from your manager or HR? Your job classification determines what kind of parking pass you’re eligible for which determines where your options are. Is this a full time job or just a summer job? If it’s a temporary thing, you can purchase monthly passes. 

https://osu.campusparc.com/get-a-permit/which-permit-is-right-for-you/

If you can bike or take public transit, do that. Otherwise get a parking pass from CampusParc if you’re on campus every day.

Bike or bus, hands down. It can be over $100/month to park here now and the enforcement is no joke.

Not sure what kind of parking instructions you expected people to send, but you can Google “Ohio state university parking,” and it will take you to CampusParc, which has all the information you need.

Ditto about biking/busing if you can though. Parking is really expensive, even for staff

Thank you for the response! I think west campus and shuttling will be my cheapest option after all. Just to check: do the shuttles need any form of buckID/payment or anything, or can anyone just get on?

Ya you should have gotten info about campus parc. Expensive as fuck but at my job they take it out of my paycheck pre tax (just had to the pay the first month out of pocket)

Otherwise there are random side streets in Columbus with free parking, luckily not super packed in the summer

It probably won't be *as* bad in the summer, unless you're in the medical center. If you are and it's easier for you to park in the west campus lots, park there and take the shuttle. The shuttles are a tight squeeze with lots of riders, but they're every 3-5 minutes during shift changes and you'll save money parking out there.


If you go to concerts or football or basketball games, remember that your parking pass includes parking for that...so you can sort of figure the cost of that parking into the cost of the pass.


IMO: They REALLY need a pass that doesn't include event (sports, concert) parking since not everyone goes to that stuff. Some people might be willing to pay less for work parking and "pay per game" for the 2-3 games &amp; concerts they attend each year.


The Buckeye Lot is near Ackerman Rd and 315 and that saves money as well.


I also echo the point of biking or COTA bus. Remember that you can buy a pass on a monthly basis. Someone I used to know would bike every day and then buy a parking pass only for the coldest of the winter months.


If you have a two-wheeled vehicle (motorcycle or scooter), those parking passes are significantly less, but parking is also a lot more limited... something else to consider.

Anyone can get on without question/issue/payment/etc. They do like people to get off at the back of the bus, especially if there's others trying to board. If it's a quiet stop and there's nobody else there, it's probably ok to exit the front if you're near the front. Generally, "on at the front and off at the back" is the rule.


If you have a mobility issue, you'll want to call 614-292-7433 (RIDE) for paratransit options. CampusParc can also get your parking permit converted to a "D" pass which gives access to ADA parking options.


With that said, the CABS buses automatically stop at every stop. There's absolutely no need to ring the bell.
