title: CampusParc — Returns, Refunds & Exchanges
url: https://osu.campusparc.com/get-a-permit/returns-refunds-exchanges/
source_type: official
---
Returns, Refunds & Exchanges

We want to ensure that you get the maximum use out of your permit. If for any reason you're unsatisfied with the permit you purchased or wish to explore another permit option, we're happy to accommodate.

Returns and Refunds

Annual permits may be returned at any time by stopping by the CampusParc Customer Care Center or by filling out the Return Request Form . See below for specific purchase-type policies.

Refunds for current or prior months are not available; payment remains the permit holder's responsibility. Upon permit return, a temporary multi-day surface lot permit can be provided for use for the remainder of the month upon request. Permits should be returned by the close of business on the last working day of the month to avoid being charged for the following month.

Purchased in Full: Customers returning an annual permit purchased in full will receive a prorated refund, excluding the current and prior months.

Payroll Deduction: Following the return of a Payroll Deduction Enrollment Form with the cancellation fields completed, deductions for future months will be discontinued. As such, permits must be canceled by 11:59 p.m. on the last business day of the month to avoid a deduction for the following month.

Refunds are provided via credit card or by check to US mailing addresses. Please allow approximately four weeks to receive a refund check by mail.

Exchanges

Customers wishing to exchange their annual permit for another within their eligibility may do so at any time by visiting the CampusParc Customer Care Center. Any difference in price is required to be addressed at the time of the exchange and is based on the current month’s sale price.

Employees utilizing payroll deduction must address the cost difference for the current calendar month at the time of exchange, with deductions for the new permit becoming effective the following calendar month.

Depending on the permit type, visitor permits may be eligible for refunds.

Digital Day Passes and Temporary Monthly Permits: Any unused digital day passes, inclusive of Offstreet permits, or temporary monthly permits are eligible for refunds prior to the effective date of the permit and within 60 days of purchase. Refunds are no longer available once the permit goes into effect.

Partial refunds are not available for partially used visitor permits.

To request a return please stop by the CampusParc Customer Care Center or fill out the Return Request Form .

Single-exit garage validations may be returned for a refund or one-time exchange within 60 days of the original purchase date. Additionally, if the 60-day return window expires after the end of permit year (July 31st), the department can exchange the SEV’s at the price delta of the next permit year.

To request a return please stop by the CampusParc Customer Care Center or fill out the Return Request Form .
