title: City of Columbus — University District Parking FAQ
url: https://www.columbus.gov/files/sharedassets/city/v/1/services/ud-website-faq-_updated-6_10_21.pdf
source_type: official
---
JENNIFER GALLAGHER Director University District Parking Plan Frequently Asked Questions

1. Why is permit parking being expanded in the University District? The City completed the Strategic Parking Plan in 2018 to guide parking management decisions in urban core neighborhoods of Columbus. Based on data and public input gathered in the planning process, recommendations were created and brought to the neighborhood in focus groups and an online survey during summer and fall 2020. Based on feedback received, adjustments were made to the plan. The boundaries were significantly reduced to focus on modernizing existing permit zones and limiting expansion. The goal of this permit parking plan is to balance the needs of residents, visitors, and businesses within the University District. Demand for parking in the University District often exceeds the capacity on-street, and so a combination of parking permits and paid parking is meant to reduce demand and ensure access to parking for all users. Additional phases of expansion may be considered later as data and public input are gathered and analyzed.

2. I already have a permit, how will the system change for me? The current permit system will be replaced with the City’s new online permit management system. All permits will be virtual, meaning no stickers or hangtags, and managed through an online permit portal. The application process will be online and no longer require applying in-person. Residents who do not have access to the internet, or who prefer to purchase permits without using the online system, may purchase permits by mail or in-person at Parking Services, 2700 Impound Lot Road, Columbus, Ohio 43207.

3. How does having a parking permit benefit me? A parking permit provides you access to park on any street within your designated permit zone. You can park for free and are not required to abide by any time limit restrictions. For example, if the sign says, “Paid parking 8am to 10pm, permit exempt,” a permit holder can park without paying for the parking between the hours of 8am and 10pm. Parking is free and unrestricted from 10pm to 8am.

4. What are the boundaries for the proposed permit areas? The boundaries for the proposed permit area can be viewed here 109 North Front Street | Columbus OH 43215 | T (614) 645.8290 | F (614) 645.7805 | columbus.gov JENNIFER GALLAGHER Director

5. Who is eligible for permits? All residential properties built prior to 12/31/2008 are eligible for permits, and all residential properties built after 12/31/2008 with fewer than 5 units are eligible for permits. Any property with 5 units or more built after 12/31/2008 is not eligible for permits unless each unit is individually addressed with a private entrance. OSU properties are not eligible for permits.

6. What information do I have to provide to get my permits? To receive permits, residents must provide a valid driver’s license and proof of residency with one of the following documents: proof of home ownership, mortgage statement, property tax bill, utility bill (water, gas, or electric), or a signed lease with both the property owner (manager) and the lessee’s signature. No vehicle registration is required to receive a permit.

7. How many permits am I eligible for? Residents who can prove residency are entitled to 1 permit. In permit zones UDB and UDC, each address is eligible for up to 6 permits, 1 per licensed driver who can prove residency for that address. In permit zone UDA, each address is eligible for up to 4 permits, 1 per licensed driver who can prove residency.

8. Am I eligible for a guest permit? Residents in permit zone UDA are entitled to 1 guest permit per address (for $25) in addition to 1 residential permit per licensed driver. All other UD zones are not eligible for guest permits. Guest parking in zones UDB and UDC is accommodated through paid parking using the ParkColumbus mobile application.

9. How much does a permit cost? Residential permit fees follow the structure below. Prices increase to manage demand. Residences are limited to 1 permit for each licensed driver in the household, up to 6 licensed drivers. ● Permits 1-2: $25 each ● Permit 3: $50 ● Permit 4: $100 ● Permit 5: $200 ● Permit 6: $300

10. What if I cannot afford my permit? The City provides residents the option to qualify for a permit fee reduction if they meet certain income 109 North Front Street | Columbus OH 43215 | T (614) 645.8290 | F (614) 645.7805 | columbus.gov JENNIFER GALLAGHER Director guidelines. Applicants who meet these requirements and provide the necessary documentation receive their parking permit for $10. To view the application and income guidelines, click here. Each resident of a household must apply separately for the parking permit fee reduction. The fee schedule described above in Question 9 still applies to all other permits purchased within a single residence.

11. What if my household has more than 6 licensed drivers? If your address has more than 6 licensed drivers, an appeal may be filed with the Assistant Director of Parking Services. Each appeal will be reviewed on its own merit with a written justification for more than 6 permits. If an appeal is approved for additional permits beyond 6, they will cost $400 each.

12. How will Airbnb and short-term rentals be handled? Unless they can certify they are a business registered with the State of Ohio, short-term rental properties will be classified as residences, and will only be eligible for permits up to the number of licensed drivers who can prove residency at the address.

13. What restrictions are being placed on streets in the permit areas? Zone UDA: Monday to Saturday from 8am to 10pm, parking will be restricted to permit holders only. Parking will be unrestricted all other times. Zones UDB and UDC: Monday to Saturday from 8am to 10pm, parking will require payment through the ParkColumbus mobile payment app for all visitors. Permit holders are exempt from payment. Parking will be unrestricted all other times.

14. How much will it cost to park on the street for people who do not have permits? During restricted hours, non-permitted vehicles will be charged for parking using a progressive pricing rate structure with no time limit on individual parking sessions. Below is an example of progressive pricing. ● First 3 hours: $2 per hour ● 4th hour: $3 ● 5th hour: $4 ● 6th hour: $5 ● 7th hour: $6 ● Each hour increases $1, up to 14 hours Metered parking spaces will be limited to three hours, $1 per hour, with the option to extend beyond three hours at the end of a parking session. 109 North Front Street | Columbus OH 43215 | T (614) 645.8290 | F (614) 645.7805 | columbus.gov JENNIFER GALLAGHER Director

15. How do visitors pay for parking in the permit zones? Parking sessions can be initiated through the ParkColumbus mobile payment app or by calling the phone number posted on the mobile payment sign throughout the zones. You can also pay for a parking session without downloading the app by visiting https://parkcolumbus.parkmobile.io/

16. Where does my permit allow me to park? Permit holders in each zone will be allowed to park at any legal parking space within their designated zone, exempt from the posted restrictions. For example, if you live in Zone UDC you can legally park anywhere in zone UDC. Your permit does not allow you to legally park in other permit zones without paying the hourly on-street parking rate.

17. Will my parking permit work at a parking meter? No, permits are not valid at parking meters.

18. When will this plan go into effect? The plan is scheduled to go live on August 1, 2021. Residents will receive notification in the spring after the final round of public feedback is received and the plan is finalized.

19. How will residents around the City, not just those in the permit zones, be made aware of these changes? New signage will be installed on every block to ensure that on-street restrictions are clear to anyone attempting to park. The City will share updates on our website and social media platforms, and with the media and neighborhood groups. The ParkColumbus app will also be updated to show all new parking zones and restrictions.

20. How are on-street rates determined? Will these change periodically like in the Short North permit areas? Rates are set based on demand and evaluated every 6 months. Because most of the existing permit zones are restricted to permit parking only during the daytime, rates are set at a higher price than other parts of the City to reflect the current restrictions. If parking occupancies rise above 80%, rates will increase. If occupancies are between 60% and 80%, rates will remain the same. If occupancies fall below 60%, rates will decrease. 109 North Front Street | Columbus OH 43215 | T (614) 645.8290 | F (614) 645.7805 | columbus.gov JENNIFER GALLAGHER Director

21. Will the plan be adjusted in the future? How will the city evaluate whether it is working? The plan will be continually evaluated and input gathered. Questions or concerns can be directed to parkingservices@columbus.gov. Changes to the plan will be made based on data, with public input also considered. The purpose of permit parking is to manage demand for a limited supply of parking and to prioritize residents’ ability to park near their homes.

22. The Strategic Parking Plan included a map that showed a much larger area. Will permit parking be expanding in the University District in the future? Public feedback at this time does not support expanded implementation. Demand for parking in these areas will be monitored and additional feedback sought before expansion.

23. How does the city enforce time limits/payment/permits? The City employs parking enforcement officers to patrol areas of managed parking regularly, using License Plate Recognition (LPR) technology. As the officer drives down the street, the LPR reads each license plate number and determines if it is associated with an active permit. If it is actively associated with a permit or a paid parking session in the mobile payment app, no ticket is issued. If the license plate is not associated with an active permit or paid parking session through the app, the officer issues a ticket.

24. How do virtual permits work? For more information about applying for permits and managing permits and guest permits, etc., visit https://www.columbus.gov/publicservice/parking/Columbus-Permit-Parking---How-To-Videos/

25. What about residents with handicap parking placards or plates? The Division of Parking Services offers a program for ADA signage installation if requirements are met. For more information visit www.columbus.gov/publicservice/parking. Vehicles parking in an ADA space with proper credentials do not need a permit.

26. How will this affect commercial service providers’ ability to park while working in the neighborhood? Commercial vehicles servicing a property are exempt from permit restrictions, but they must be identifiable as a commercial vehicle by either displaying commercial license plates or a clear logo displaying the company name and contact information (phone, email, etc.). The logo should be a minimum of 12” by 16” and on both sides of the vehicle. Enforcement will primarily be complaint-driven, and tickets will be issued if vehicles are frequently in the same location. 109 North Front Street | Columbus OH 43215 | T (614) 645.8290 | F (614) 645.7805 | columbus.gov
